______________________________________________________________________________________
•	A conceptual modelling framework based on restricted natural language: In this project I was working to ensure the ease of communication between a system analyst/product owner and a domain expert during the traditional information system design process. My main task was to identify technology limitations and deficiencies in existing conceptual modelling systems, associated processes, and methods. Then propose, design, and develop a conceptual modelling framework to overcome these limitations. I have designed and developed a conceptual modelling framework for developing conceptual models using a restricted form of natural language. The framework allows writing specification for a conceptual model, generate verbalization for the conceptual model and allows verification of the written specification as well as the conceptual model. The framework was developed using Python, SWI-Prolog and MySQL. The project was successful since it was acknowledged by both natural language processing and database system community. 

Link: https://github.com/kushol/Using-Restricted-Natural-language-for-Conceptual-Modelling
1. https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/U18-1005.pdf
2. https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-39469-1_1
3. https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/U19-1017/
_______________________________________________________________________________________
•	A semi-automatic mapper for enriching existing knowledge bases:  This was my master’s project where I was working to map the contents of an external knowledge base (YAGO) to a target knowledge base (The Universal Knowledge base). The main task of this project was to perform analysis of an external knowledge base (YAGO) with the purpose of evaluating its quality and mapping it with a linguistic resource (The Universal Knowledge base). For this project at first, I have gone through the existing mapping process to identify their limitations and then I came up with a new mapping technique that takes the advantages from both manual and automatic mapping processes. The outcome of this project was a tool named Semi-Automatic Mapper (SAM) that allows user to map an external knowledgebase to a target knowledge base therefore helps user to enrich the existing knowledge bases. The tool was developed using JAVA, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and MySQL. The project was a successful one since it was acknowledged by the semantic web community.

Link: https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-642-33618-8_61
___________________________________________________________________________________________
•	A browser independent flow chart generator: Our software factory manager asked me to develop a user interface (UI) that allow users to generate flow charts from natural language text. They needed this new feature for their business continuity software named ORBIT. As a software engineer my task was to gather the requirements of this new feature and then to build the UI. Another requirement was that the UI should be browser independent. For this project I have gone through some popular java script libraries to find out whether they support this kind of functionality or not. I have also studied the natural language text pattern for a flow chart description. The result of this project was a tool (browser independent flow chart generator) that can generate flow chart from a specification written in natural language. The generator was developed using a JavaScript library named Raphaeljs.
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
•	Exploratory data analysis on cycling dataset: This was a portfolio project for data science that involves exploratory data analysis. The task was to perform exploratory analysis of CSV data for cycling by combining data from Strava and GoldenCheetah application. The main activities of this project were to look at the key variable distribution, identifying the correlation between the key variables and then exploring the differences between the three categories: race, workout and ride using scatter plots and boxplots. The outcome of this project was hands on experience on exploratory data analysis and how to use python data analysis library like pandas and visualization libraries like pyplot and seaborn.
____________________________________________________________________________________________
•	Energy usage prediction of a house based on the key parameters: This was also a portfolio project that predicts the energy usage of a house based on some key parameters like temperature, humidity, time and weather. The task was to predict the energy usage of a house based on Internet of Things (IoT) measurements of temperature, humidity, and weather observations. An exploration of the data showing the distribution of values of variables. Fitting a linear model to the data and generating evaluation metrics (mean squared error, R2 score). Use the sklearn RFE function to apply Recursive Feature Estimation to the data to select the best features. In this project, I have explored the relationship between energy consumption and various measurements and looked into the question of whether temperature and humidity measurements from a wireless network can help in the energy consumption prediction and found out which parameters are the most important in prediction.
